---
title: Rules as Code Europe and Association Launch Event — 2025 OpenFisca Conference
layout: association
---

# 2025 OpenFisca Conference — <br/>Rules as Code Europe & Association Launch Event

📅 17<sup>th</sup>–19<sup>th</sup> March 2025
🇫🇷 Paris, France
🎟️ Free event upon registration

## Days 1 and 2: Rules as Code Europe

The OpenFisca Association is a co-organiser of the first Rules as Code Europe conference, hosted by the French Interministerial Direction for Digital Affairs (DINUM).

All details can be found on the [conference website](https://docs.numerique.gouv.fr/docs/1b64643b-7163-4a96-b78d-251f3a5e81e7/).

### Venue

Lieu de la Transformation Publique

## Day 3, 09h00 – 11h30: Association Launch Event

Join other Association members for a reception at the Main Dining Hall of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. With interventions in person but also live from Oslo, Canberra and Wellington, you will discover the path for further adoption of Rules as Code and Digital Public Goods in 2025, learn more about the governance of transformative digital commons and the state of OpenFisca adoption around the world.

### Venue

Grande salle à manger, Hôtel du ministre, Ministère de l'Europe et des Affaires Étrangères

### Schedule

- The first part, introduced by Ambassador for Digital Affairs Henri Verdier, will showcase the relevance of digital commons, open source and open governance for digital transformation and sovereignty and how OpenFisca is a great example of that. The association itself, its members and governance will be presented.
- The second part, introduced by CEO of the Digital Public Goods Alliance Liv Nordhaug, will present how global adoption of a shared technology stack and digital public infrastructure is relevant, efficient, and how it supports collaboration. An upcoming initiative, GovStack, will be highlighted. The global adoption and impact of Rules as Code and OpenFisca will be presented.
- State of OpenFisca: a series of short interventions reviewing the achievements of OpenFisca community members in different countries and highlighting the new models of the year. Presentations by 🇯🇵 Shunsuke Takagi, 🇳🇨 Maxime Bollengier, 🇳🇿 Hamish Fraser, 🇦🇺 Con Fountas, 🇦🇪 Giulio Quaggiotto, 🇹🇳🇲🇱🇸🇳🇨🇮 Mahdi Ben Jelloul, 🇫🇷 Lola Josseran, 📍 Thomas Guillet.
- The third part, introduced by G7 Senior Researcher Jess Rapson, will highlight the economical relevance of Rules as Code in general, and in the public sector with OpenFisca in particular. An upcoming paper supporting Rules as Code submitted for adoption to the G7 summit will be announced, and the vision of growth for 2025 and the first actions of the Association will be presented.

## Day 3, 12h00 – 14h00: Networking lunch

Meet with speakers, founding members, senior contributors and other international delegations over a delicious lunch in the center of Paris.

### Venue

Fuga Riviera, 10 port des Invalides, 75007 Paris

## Day 3, 14h30 – 17h00: Community Gathering

Connect with the wider OpenFisca community, share your interrogations, successes and needs in your usage of the product and meet with other people who have been there too.

### Venue

Lieu de la Transformation Publique

## Sponsors

{{< sponsors >}}
  [
    {
      "image": "dinum.png",
      "href": "https://www.numerique.gouv.fr/numerique-etat/dinum/",
      "name": "Interministerial Direction for Digital Affairs"
    },
    {
      "image": "ambanum.png",
      "href": "https://www.diplomatie.gouv.fr/fr/politique-etrangere-de-la-france/diplomatie-numerique/la-mission-de-l-ambassadeur-pour-le-numerique/",
      "name": "French Ambassador for Digital Affairs"
    }
  ]
{{< /sponsors >}}

## Code of conduct

This event is subject to the OpenFisca events [code of conduct]({{< relref path="code-of-conduct" >}}). By registering, you agree to abide by it. The quick version of the code of conduct is below:

> Our events are dedicated to providing a harassment-free conference experience for everyone, regardless of gender identity and expression, age, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, ethnicity, religion or lack thereof, or technology choices. We do not tolerate harassment of participants in any form. Sexual language and imagery is not appropriate for any conference venue, including talks, workshops, parties, and online media. Conference participants violating these rules may be sanctioned or expelled from the conference without a refund at the discretion of the conference organisers.
