---
title: Policy Innovation and Rules as Code — 2026 OpenFisca Conference
layout: association
---

# 2026 OpenFisca Conference — <br/>Policy Innovation & Rules as Code

📅 30<sup>th</sup>–31<sup>st</sup> March 2026
🇦🇺 Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Australia
🎟️ Free event upon registration

{{< banner class="banner-dark mt-xl2" bgImage="true">}}
  {{< button href="https://openfisca.assoconnect.com/collect/description/679674-e-policy-innovation-rules-as-code-2026-openfisca-conference" text="Register now" target="_blank" >}}
{{< /banner >}}

## Day 1: Policy innovation for better public outcomes

Policy making and delivery has largely not kept pace with the increased speed, complexity and pressures of change and changing expectations in a modern, polycrisis world. Civil services around the world have hungrily adopted new methods and technologies, but what is working to drive measurable, scalable and sustainable public good? How might policy as a discipline evolve and transform to become more adaptive, humane and impactful? What can we learn from the past, and might a better future look like that we can work towards?

The Policy Innovation for Public Good event is dedicated to exploring these questions, through international and cross-disciplinary cooperation, bringing together a wide range of civil servants and policy aficionados to share experience, aspirations and bring bold collective reimagining of policy making and delivery.

### Venue

[INSPIRE Centre](https://www.openstreetmap.org/?mlat=-35.238237&amp;mlon=149.082091#map=17/-35.238237/149.082091), University of Canberra (GPS: -35.238,149.082)

<iframe width="425" height="350" src="https://www.openstreetmap.org/export/embed.html?bbox=149.07624363899234%2C-35.2415884341076%2C149.08793807029727%2C-35.23488482749079&amp;layer=mapnik&amp;marker=-35.23823670005701%2C149.08209085464478" style="border: 1px solid black"></iframe>

### Schedule

- **08:30 - Doors open**
- **09:00 - Welcome and acknowledgement of Country**
[Acknowledgement of Country](https://www.reconciliation.org.au/reconciliation/acknowledgement-of-country-and-welcome-to-country/#AcknowledgementofCountry) is an Australian cultural protocol. It is an opportunity to show respect for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. Our event [acknowledges](https://www.act.gov.au/community/aboriginal-and-torres-strait-islander-peoples/indigenous-protocols-in-the-act) the Ngunnawal people as traditional custodians of the land we will be meeting on and pays respects to its Elders past and present.
- **09:10 - Opening keynote: Adaptive Policy for Adaptive Systems**
Michael Outram, Independent Advisor and former ABF Commissioner
- **09:30 - Policy innovation around the world**
An exciting panel with case studies (10 mins each) and lessons on policy innovation from the human development sector, with:
  - Bridi Rice (Development Intelligence Lab, Australia)
  - Jayne Foster _(pre-recorded)_ (Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, New Zealand)
  - Karen Tindall (Behavioural Insights Team, Australia)
  - Naho Kitano (Asukoe Partners Inc / Information-technology Promotion Agency, Japan)
  - Nandita Das _(pre-recorded)_ (New South Wales Government, Australia)
  - Sandra Chakroun (National Assembly, France)
  - Shane Johnson (Australian Evaluation Profession, Australia)
- **10:50 - Morning tea**
- **11:10 - Policy as a journey**
An exciting panel of novel policy methods, frameworks, operating models and innovative use of technology. This panel will also discuss the criticality of looking backwards and forward. Speakers include:
  - Benoît Courty _(pre-recorded)_ (National Assembly, France)
  - Catherine Althaus (Pracademic, University of New South Wales)
  - Frank Bongiorno (Centre for Public Ideas, University of Canberra)
  - Koichiro Shiratori (Faculty of Political Science and Economics of Takushoku)
  - Phillipa Martin (Salsa Digital)
  - Suhit Anantula (The Helix Lab)
  - Swati Mehta (Open Government Partnership)
- **12:30 - Lunch**
- **13:30 - Participatory Possibilities**
Chris Vanstone (TACSI)
- **13:50 - Policy cooperation workshop**
This session will invite attendees to participate in policy innovation discussions to share and co-create next steps. Each table will be invited to present their key insights and ideas, which will be captured in a post event policy innovation report. Topics will include Participatory possibilities with policy, How to make policy innovation the new normal in policy institutions, What policy infrastructure is required to support modern policy making and management, and How should AI be used in policy making? Note: There will be a simultaneous offsite government to government knowledge exchange event, for which participants will be transported from the Inspire venue at 1pm promptly.
- **15:30 - Afternoon tea**
- **16:00 - Groups report back on stream insights, with voting and prizes**
- **16:30 - Policy capability innovation: Transforming traditional policy teams to be innovative as usual**
Tim De Sousa (FTI Consulting)
- **16:50 - Final thanks and close**

### Special _gov2gov_ afternoon

For civil servants only, no matter from which jurisdiction, we organise a special meeting hosted by the Australian Department of Finance under [Chatham House Rule](https://www.chathamhouse.org/about-us/chatham-house-rule) for open sharing of difficulties and opportunities in Rules as Code and Policy Innovation in the public sector.

Transportation will be organised from the main event venue to the gov2gov event location.

- **13:30 to 14:00 - transportation to Dept of Finance**
- **14:00 to 17:00 - gov2gov knowledge sharing side event**

{{< banner class="banner-dark mt-xl2">}}
  {{< button href="https://openfisca.assoconnect.com/collect/description/679674-e-policy-innovation-rules-as-code-2026-openfisca-conference" text="Register for gov2gov event now" target="_blank" type="secondary" >}}
{{< /banner >}}

## Networking dinner

The networking dinner will be the opportunity to meet with speakers, association members and conference organisers. The dinner will take place at the [Water’s Edge restaurant](https://www.watersedgecanberra.com.au). You will enjoy a three course meal, including non-alcoholic drinks and hot drinks, in a beautiful venue on the shore of Lake Burley Griffin.

A bus will be taking you from the conference venue to the restaurant. As there is about an hour between the end of the day’s event and the start of dinner, you will be offered the possibility to join a walking tour of the Parliamentary Triangle area with the rest of the group.

- **17:00 to 17:30 - transportation to city center**
- **17:30 to 18:30 - group city tour**
Courtesy of the GovCMS team.
- **18:30 to 20:30 - networking dinner**

{{< banner class="banner-dark mt-xl2">}}
  {{< button disabled="disabled" text="Dinner is booked out" type="secondary" >}}
{{< /banner >}}

## Day 2: Rules as Code around the world with OpenFisca

The second International OpenFisca Conference will bring together policymakers and technical experts to advance transparency, innovation, and collaboration in Rules as Code. The intention of this event is to explore and share Rules as Code case studies, best practices and innovative approaches, and celebrate public and civil society actors who have made strong achievements. OpenFisca is the world’s most widely adopted free and open-source platform to write, provide and support proactive modelling and operational use of Rules as Code. This annual conference provides both a chance to learn from exciting Rules as Code innovation around the world, and to extend our collective vision towards where we need to go.

### Venue

Semesters Room, [Building One](https://www.openstreetmap.org/?mlat=-35.238624&mlon=149.084730#map=18/-35.238624/149.084730), University of Canberra (GPS: -35.239,149.085)

<iframe width="425" height="350" src="https://www.openstreetmap.org/export/embed.html?bbox=149.080867767334%2C-35.24030033309568%2C149.0885925292969%2C-35.23694854581096&amp;layer=mapnik&amp;marker=-35.23862445676786%2C149.08473014831543" style="border: 1px solid black"></iframe>

### Schedule

- **08:30 - Doors open**
- **09:00 - Welcome**
- **09:05 - Starting on the same page: what are Rules as Code and Better Rules?**
Nadia Webster, Design Lead for Business Rules, Ministry of Social Development (New Zealand)
- **09:20 - The start and international growth of OpenFisca**
Matti Schneider, Executive Director, OpenFisca Association
- **09:25 - How countries discover and adopt Rules as Code: the case of Japan**
Haruko Izuhara, Researcher & Writing Analyst, Markhor Corp (Japan)
- **09:35 - State of OpenFisca: a global tour of use cases and adoption around the world**
A series of short interventions reviewing the achievements of OpenFisca community members in different countries and highlighting the new models of the year. Presentations by 🇫🇷 Sandra Chakroun, 🇹🇳 Mahdi Ben Jelloul, 🇸🇳 Sylvain Duchesne, 🇷🇪 Thomas Guillet, 🇵🇾 Ernesto Rodriguetti, 🇨🇦 Maxime Cuillerier, 🇵🇫 Yannick Gooding, 🇯🇵 Koichiro Shiratori, 🇳🇨 Maxime Bollengier, 🇳🇿 Hamish Fraser.
- **10:10 - Australia’s whole-of-government approach**
Sharyn Clarkson, Department of Finance (Australia)
- **10:20 - How Assemblic reduces the cost of implementing Rules as Code with OpenFisca** _(sponsor speech)_
Con Fountas, Assemblic (Australia)
- **10:25 - The economic relevance of Rules as Code**
Tim De Sousa, Managing director for privacy, information governance and technology ethics, FTI Consulting (Australia)
- **10:35 - Announcement of a global consultation on Rules as Code**
Hakke Hansen, Head of the Law as Code initiative, SPRIN-D (Germany)
Natalie Cohen, Head of the Regulatory Policy for Global Challenges unit, OECD
- **10:40 - The OpenFisca Association’s first year of operation: structuring digital commons**
Matti Schneider, Executive Director, OpenFisca Association
- **10:55 - Morning tea**
- **11:20 - Adoption strategies** (fishbowl format)
Discussion with different witnesses on how Rules as Code has been adopted by governments in their jurisdiction. The conversation will be sparked by a presentation by the GovCMS team in Australia, with reactions and insights by delegates from Japan, France and New Zealand. The discussion will progressively open up to audience members as they join the presenters on stage, shifting the conversation to match the interests and challenges of the participants. This practice is known as a [fishbowl](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fishbowl_(conversation)).
- **12:20 - Networking lunch**

Our afternoon is structured in sequences of 30 minutes that follow along the policy production path: from design to delivery to optimisation. Each sequence will have two parallel streams, allowing you each time to decide which case study is most relevant to your own context.
In each session, you will get a product demo, learn about the context that led to it, discover its results and impact, find out about the teams and collaborations behind those, and hear about future perspectives. After a 10-15 minutes presentation, you will have 15 minutes to share and discuss, maximising learnings and creating lasting connections that will support your own projects.

- **13:30 - Afternoon programme announcement**
- **13:35 - Designing policies with their digital twins**
  - How impact assessment with OpenFisca changed entirely a planned reform (Maxime Bollengier, Direction for Digital Transformation, New Caledonia)
  - How LexImpact uses OpenFisca to model the impact of the finance bill on the budget of the State (Sandra Chakroun, National Assembly, France)
- **14:10 - Delivering policies to end users**
  - Benefit navigator (GovTechTokyo, Japan)
  - Eligibility to join the Air Force Cadets (Rob West, Department of Defence, Australia)
- **14:45 - New tools for policy modelling**
Highlight of recent products from members of the Association.
  - Deploy documents as digital infrastructure with DocRef (Hamish Fraser, Syncopate)
  - Enabling Rules as Code at scale with Assemblic Codify (Kurt Foster, Assemblic)
- **15:20 - The future of modelling**
  - Modelling rules to start from zero: radical simplification of law by mirroring results (Koichiro Shiratori, Institute for poverty prevention, Japan)
  - Scaling rules intelligence: making AI work for Rules as Code (Possum Hodgkin, Department of Finance, Australia)
- **15:50 - Afternoon tea**
- **16:15 - Working groups**
The OpenFisca Association introduces Working Groups as a way to foster international collaboration. Kickstart this new approach in person and join the conversations! You will have a 3 minutes introduction of each working group, will choose where to contribute for 45 minutes, and will then share your observations with the wider group.
  - AI: which use cases are relevant for Rules as Code? Which safeguards must we put in place? What policy for AI-assisted contributions?
  - Benefits assessment tools: how to raise public awareness and deliver the simulators to users? How to do community organising to update the rules?
  - Mutualisation of tooling: how can we avoid duplicate effort in tools for updating Rules as Code systems? Which systems already exist and should be invested in?
- **17:20 - Digital commons like OpenFisca are critical infrastructure** _(sponsor speech)_
Henri Verdier, President, Fondation Inria (France)
- **17:25 - Closing address**
- **17:30 - End of the event**

{{< banner class="banner-dark mt-xl2">}}
  {{< button href="https://openfisca.assoconnect.com/collect/description/679674-e-policy-innovation-rules-as-code-2026-openfisca-conference" text="Register for day 2 now" target="_blank" type="secondary" >}}
{{< /banner >}}

## Sponsors

{{< sponsors >}}
  [
    {
      "image": "salsa-digital.png",
      "href": "https://salsa.digital",
      "name": "Salsa Digital"
    },
    {
      "image": "assemblic.png",
      "href": "https://www.assemblic.com",
      "name": "Assemblic"
    },
    {
      "image": "fondation-inria.png",
      "href": "https://fondation-inria.fr",
      "name": "Fondation Inria"
    }
  ]
{{< /sponsors >}}

## Partners

- Media partner: [The Mandarin](https://themandarin.com.au)
- Venue partner: [UCX](https://ucx.canberra.edu.au) at the University of Canberra
